README.md, before:

# xnat_utilities
Code base for XNAT applications

Instructions are based on Ubuntu 20.04.5 LTS

## Installation/Prerequisite
1. Docker engine (installation for [ubuntu](https://github.com/srikash/TheBeesKnees/wiki/Installing-Docker-on-Ubuntu) or official installation documentation [here](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/))
2. Data are organized in sub-## folders (e.g., sub-01, sub-02...)
3. Virual environment recommended.

## BIDScoin
https://github.com/srikash/TheBeesKnees/wiki/Converting-DICOMs-to-BIDS-NIfTIs*

\* `qtcreator` may be required for opening the GUI on ubuntu.

## HeuDiConv
https://heudiconv.readthedocs.io/en/latest/

Method1:
1. Type `docker pull nipy/heudiconv:latest` in terminal to install HeuDiConv
2. Get a converter file (also available in ./heudiconv/) that is compatible with your dicoms
3. For a single subject: `docker run --rm -it -v <base_dir>:/base nipy/heudiconv:latest -d <base_dir/dicoms_dir>/sub-{subject}/*/*.dcm -o <base_dir/bids_dir>/ -f <base_dir/heuristic_dir>/heuristic.py -s 01 -c dcm2niix -b --overwrite --minmeta`*

Method2 for a single subject:
1. Type `docker pull nipy/heudiconv:latest` in terminal to install HeuDiConv
2. Get the heudiconv_test.sh in this directory and a converter file (also available in ./heudiconv)
3. Put the script in the parent directory (base) of your dicom directory (and bids directory if exists). Put the converter under the base directory.
4. When you are in the base directory, run heudiconv_test.sh with four arguments: relative path to converter file, name of dicom directory, name of bids directory and subject number (e.g., 01)

\* Optional session flag `-ss` is available.

\* Relative path from a base directory rather than absolute path is highly recommended.

Method3 with dockerfile to deal with derived images and more reliable classification: 
- In Progress

## MRIQC
https://mriqc.readthedocs.io/en/latest/
1. Data have to be in BIDS. You can validate your data with the [validator](http://incf.github.io/bids-validator/). Some valid key labels may not be accepted by the validator but will not affect the overall performance of MRIQC.
2. To see whether mriqc works properly, use `docker run -it nipreps/mriqc:latest --version` to check the version
3. For a single subject: `docker run -it --rm -v <bids_dir>:/data:ro -v <output_dir>:/out nipreps/mriqc:latest /data /out participant --participant_label sub-01`

Commit message:

Updated README + added link to modified heudiconv

README.md, after:

# xnat_utilities
Code base for XNAT applications

Instructions are based on Ubuntu 20.04.5 LTS

## Prerequisite
1. Docker engine (installation for [ubuntu](https://github.com/srikash/TheBeesKnees/wiki/Installing-Docker-on-Ubuntu) or official installation documentation [here](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/))
2. Data are organized in sub-## folders (e.g., sub-01, sub-02...)
3. Virtual environment recommended.

## BIDScoin
https://github.com/srikash/TheBeesKnees/wiki/Converting-DICOMs-to-BIDS-NIfTIs*

\* `qtcreator` may be required for opening the GUI on ubuntu.

## HeuDiConv
https://heudiconv.readthedocs.io/en/latest/

To Get heudiconv (choose one):
1. Latest official heudiconv: Type `docker pull nipy/heudiconv:latest` in terminal
2. [Modified version](https://github.com/845127818virna/heudiconv): Clone the repository and use the dockerfile in it to build a docker image. This version allows derived images. Remember to replace `nipy/heudiconv:latest` with the image you built.

Method1:
1. Get a converter file (also available in ./heudiconv/) that is compatible with your dicoms
2. For a single subject: `docker run --rm -it -v <base_dir>:/base nipy/heudiconv:latest -d <base_dir/dicoms_dir>/sub-{subject}/*/*.dcm -o <base_dir/bids_dir>/ -f <base_dir/heuristic_dir>/<heuristic_file> -s <subject_index> -c dcm2niix -b --overwrite --minmeta`*

\* Optional session flag `-ss` is available.

\* Relative path from a base directory rather than absolute path is highly recommended.

Method2 for a single subject:
1. Get the heudiconv_test.sh and a converter file (also available in ./heudiconv/)
2. Put the script in the parent directory (base) of your dicom directory (and bids directory if exists). Put the converter under the base directory.
3. When you are in the base directory, run heudiconv_test.sh with four arguments: relative path to converter file, name of dicom directory, name of bids directory and subject index (e.g., 01)

### heuristic file provided by us
- heuristic_protocol.py: classification based on series description.
- heuristic_sequence.py: classification based on sequence name


## MRIQC
https://mriqc.readthedocs.io/en/latest/
1. Data have to be in BIDS. You can validate your data with the [validator](http://incf.github.io/bids-validator/). Some valid key labels may not be accepted by the validator but will not affect the overall performance of MRIQC.
2. To see whether mriqc works properly, use `docker run -it nipreps/mriqc:latest --version` to check the version
3. For a single subject: `docker run -it --rm -v <bids_dir>:/data:ro -v <output_dir>:/out nipreps/mriqc:latest /data /out participant --participant_label <subject_folder_name>`
